in this video we will compare n8n and
flow wise if you guys want to get
started with either n8n or flow wise you
can use the links given down in the
description n8n and flow wise are both
automation tools but gather to slightly
difference user needs n8n is a locode
platform for building workflows that
Connect app services and apps it
supports various Integrations perfect
for automations data syn and custom
workflows it offers a starter plan at
$20 per month a Pro Plan at $50 per
month and an Enterprise by contacting
n8n is easy for simple task but needs
JavaScript and appy skills for advanced
workflows flowise is a tool for managing
AI workflows with model like open AI GPT
or hugging face it provides AI workflows
ideal for building chatbots content
tools and other AI applications it
offers a starter plan at $35 per month a
Pro Plan at $65 per month at Enterprise
by contacting a downside of low wise is
its limited scope compared to to General
automation Tools in my opinion n8n is
better for veratile workflow automation
while flow wise Exel in an AI driven
conversational task so that's comparison
between N8 and N nlow wise make sure to
use the links given down in the
description to get started with either
N8 and or flow wise if this video was
helpful please consider leaving a like
and subscribing to my Channel with that
being said I'll see you in the next
video
