In this video, I will show you how to
extract structured data
from unstructured data using
large language models and Flow-wise.
Working with unstructured data is one of
the most common use
cases that I've experienced
as an AI engineer, and it's definitely a
skill that you want to
add to your AI toolkit.
So, what do I mean by
working with unstructured data?
First, let's have a look at a super
simple example, and then
ramp up the complexity.
In this text file, we have some
information about two characters.
This contains their name, their age,
where they live, and their occupation.
This is considered unstructured data.
Let's assume that you wanted to extract
some information from this file,
like the person's name and age, so that
you could work with that data
within some custom application or an
automation workflow,
or maybe you simply want to extract this
information and store
it in a database table.
This would be very difficult to achieve,
if not impossible,
using traditional coding.
But now we can use the intelligence of
large language models
to extract any information we need from
any type of unstructured data.
Or let's have a look at a more complex
example, like this invoice,
where we might want to extract certain
information, like the invoice date,
the invoice number, the individual line
items, the totals, etc.
So in this video, you will learn how to
use output parsers and
large language models
to extract any data that you want from
simple examples like this
to advanced structures like invoices.
And for this, we will be using Flowwise,
which is a free open source AI
application builder.
If you wanted to learn
how to set up Flowwise,
then check out my Getting
Started video over here.
So in this application, we can upload a
file from our machine,
and Flowwise supports all
sorts of file extensions,
or we can simply enter the
data within this chat session.
John is 40 years old, lives in New York,
and is a software developer.
And what we get back is a JSON structure
containing the name,
age, city, and occupation.
And in this video, you will learn how to
define the exact structure
that you want to get back.
And you will also notice
that age is actually a number,
whereas the rest of
these fields are strings.
So you can also define the type of value
that you expect to get back.
Let's also try uploading a file.
Like this file that I showed earlier,
this file contains two subjects, James
and Mary, with their information.
So I'll select that file from my machine,
and within the chat, we can now specify
which subject we want to
extract information for,
like the subject is James.
And of course, we get the
correct information back.
Or let's try changing
the subject to Mary.
And now we're getting
Mary's information back.
And this is working as well.
And take note that this
JSON structure is consistent.
In other words, the property names and
the type of the values
are consistent between
each of these responses,
giving us a reliable way to work with
this data from within
or outside of Flow-wise.
Or let's try a more advanced
example, like this invoice,
that contains all sorts of information
about the invoice, individual line items.
And just to keep things interesting, the
total is actually on a separate page.
And this type of printing issues can
easily happen in the real world.
So with InnoChat,
let's select that invoice.
And for this one, we actually don't have
to provide any instructions.
So I'll just enter Go.
And you will now see that this structure
is way more complex
than the previous example,
where we have the invoice number, the
date, invoice totals,
the currency symbol,
and the items as an array of values.
So hopefully, you're starting to see the
value of learning how to
work with unstructured data.
So typically, you wouldn't run the
extraction within Flow-wise like this.
This is simply for testing sake.
But Flow-wise, it does expose API
endpoints that you can call
to pass in the contents of the file.
And then you will receive that JSON
output structure as the response.
Now let's go ahead and build this.
Within Flow-wise, go to Chat Flows, and
then click on Add New.
Let's save our chat flow.
Let's give it a name
like unstructured demo.
Then let's start by adding an LLM chain.
Go to Add Nodes.
Then under Chains,
let's add the LLM chain.
Chains allow us to attach output parsers.
And it's the output parser that will take
the response from the
LLM and convert it to JSON.
But let's first start by
adding our large language model.
Let's go to Add Nodes.
Then let's go to Chat Models.
And at this point, you can definitely add
Chat Olamma to run some local models
like the Llama 3.2 3 billion parameter
model, which we've
used in previous videos.
But for more advanced
structures, like with the invoice,
I do recommend using one
of the more advanced models.
So I'm actually going to use
one of the anthropic models.
So I'll add Chat Anthropic.
Let's attach the LLM to the chain.
Then under Credentials, if this is your
first time using anthropic,
simply click on Create New, give it a
name like Anthropic API.
And then for the API key, go to
anthropic.com slash API,
then click on Start Building,
create your account, and you should
receive some free credits to get started.
Then click on Get API Keys.
Then click on Create Key, select your
workspace, give it a name.
I'll just call mine Unstructured Demo.
Copy the key and add it to Flowwise.
Click on Add and select your
credential from the dropdown.
Then for the model name,
let's select Claw 3.5 Sonnet,
and let's lower the
temperature to something like 0.2.
This will ensure that the model will
closely follow our instructions.
Now let's add a prompt template.
Let's go to Add Nodes, let's go to Prons,
and let's add the prompt template.
Let's also attach this node to our chain.
We can use the prompt template to provide
instructions to our AI model.
So let's open up the template, and let's
enter the following.
From the provided context and additional
information from the
user, return a JSON structure.
So what I want to do here is provide
context from a file as an example,
and we also want to allow the user to
provide information as well.
For instance, to tell the
ALOL M who the subject is.
Let's provide
placeholders for those values.
So I'll start with the user context, and
we can create a variable
by adding opening and closing curly
braces with the variable name.
Below that, let's also add the file
context with a variable
called context, like so.
So question will represent
the text from the chat window,
and file context will include the content
of the file that we uploaded.
Let's save this.
Let's go to format prompt values, and now
let's assign the values
for these two variables.
For question, we will select
a question from the chat box,
and for context, we want to
select the file attachment.
We can now close this popup, and finally,
we now want to provide an output parser.
We will have a look at two different
output parsers in this video.
Let's go to output parsers, and here you
will find a CSV output parser,
a custom list, the structured output
parser, which is what we will use now,
and we will also have a look at the
advanced structured
output parser as well.
And this will allow us to add things like
arrays and nested structures.
But let's start with the
structured output parser.
Let's attach this to our chain, and let's
define the structure
that we want to get
back from this application.
Let's go to additional parameters, and
here we get two
examples, which we can delete.
Now, looking at this data,
I want to get back the name,
the age, the city, and the
occupation of any given subject.
So let's add those values.
First, let's add a property called name,
and for the type, we can
select string, number, or boolean.
The name will be a string value.
The description is really important, as
this will tell the LLM
how to extract the
information for this property.
So let's enter the name of the subject.
Let's add another item for the
age, which is of type number,
and with the description of the age of
the subject, let's add
another item for the location.
This is of type string, and for the
description, I'll enter the
city or town of the subject.
And let's add one more for the
occupation, which is of type string,
and for the description, let's enter the
occupation of the subject.
This should be it for this example.
Let's close this
popup, and let's test this.
Let's save this flow.
Then in the chat, I'm
going to expand this.
We can now enter anything that we want.
So in the chat, let's
simply enter something like,
John is 30 years old, lives in New York,
and is a software developer.
Let's save this, and
this seems to be working.
So how can we add file
uploads to this chat?
That's quite simple.
Let's go to settings,
let's go to configuration,
let's go to file upload, and let's enable
full file uploads, and save this.
Now when we go back to the chat, we are
able to select files from our machines.
So I've selected the sample file, which
contains two subjects, James and Mary.
So let's say the subject is James, and we
do get the information
back related to James.
Now let's try.
The subject is Mary, and of course we
have to upload the file again,
as these chats do not
have conversational memory.
We're not building a chatbot here after
all, so let's try this again.
The subject is Mary, and we
do get Mary's information back.
So it's very useful to
upload a single file,
and to then tell the model which subject
we want to extract information for.
The amount of use cases for this is
pretty much unlimited.
Now let's move on to a
more advanced example.
Here we have an invoice containing all
sorts of information,
like the invoice date, the invoice
number, a due date, the items, subtotals,
and the overall total.
Now the structured output parser is ideal
if you are dealing with a flat structure,
but what if we wanted to have nested
objects or arrays, like
the individual invoice items?
For that, we can use the advanced
structure output node.
I'm actually going to remove the
structured output parser.
Let's go to add nodes.
And let's add the advanced
structured output parser.
Let's attach this to our LLM chain.
And let's set up this structure.
Let's pick on expand.
This might look intimidating, but I will
show you a super simple way
of creating this structure.
You can use something like chatgpt or
clod to generate the structure for you.
Simply enter something like create a ZOD
schema with the following values.
Then you can provide the name of the
property as well as the type.
So it could be a number, a string, an
object, a boolean, etc.
As well as the
description of that property.
This is following the exact same
structure as we saw with
the structured output parser.
The include or chatgpt will generate some
sort of response that
looks something like this.
What we're interested in
is everything from this
Z.object all the way down to
the closing brackets, like so.
So we can simply copy this
and then add it to flowwise.
So here we have the invoice number, which
is of type number, and
more specifically an integer.
So there are no decimal places and this
can only be a positive value.
And of course we have to add a
description to tell the LLM how to
identify this information
with either unstructured data.
So we can do the same thing for the date,
the invoice total,
and the currency string.
We will add an array in a minute to
extract the invoice items.
But let's keep things simple for now.
Let's save this, let's save the chat
flow, and let's test
this out in the chat.
So I'll clear the chat as
we are working with new data,
then I'll select the
invoice from my machine.
We don't have to provide any user context
in this case, so I'll just enter go,
and we can see that the invoice number is
indeed 9996 with a due
date of 25 November 2024.
This is correct.
And we can see that the total is indeed
500 pounds and a currency
symbol of British pounds.
Now let's see how we can take this to the
next level by also
including the individual
invoice items as an array of values.
And I simply recommend using Claude or
chatgpt to do this as well.
So I'll simply paste in the value, which
is called items, which is of type array.
And within the array, we can specify the
object or the structure of
each of these array items.
And all we want is a description of the
item along with the item's amount.
Let's save this change, let's save the
chat flow, I'll select the
invoice, and let's enter go.
And we are getting an error message, but
I do want to show you this
instead of editing it out.
We are getting a message saying that we
could not parse the date
because the property expected a
format of date, but instead we received
the format of string.
So working with dates can be quite
tricky, and there are ways around it.
But to keep things simple, I'm simply
going to change the
date to a string instead.
But what we can do is tell the alan m in
which format we want
to receive this date.
So let's enter something like as dayday
slash month month slash year year year.
Let's save this change, let's save the
chat flow, and let's try this again.
And look at that, we received the invoice
date in the correct format,
and we also get this
array of items coming back.
If you enjoyed this video, then please
hit the like button, subscribe to my
channel to support my work,
and check out these other
flow wise videos over here.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.
