In this video, I will show you how to use
the E2B Code Interpreter in Flowwise.
A Code Interpreter allows our AI agents
to write and run code to
do some pretty cool things,
like analyzing complex data and
visualizing the results.
For instance, we could ask our AI
assistant to analyze some data and
generate some graphs.
So from the chat window, we can select
our file containing
financial information about
several companies, and the agent will be
able to respond with any
type of chart that we want.
Like the stock price versus gross margin
scatter plot, working with complex data
and visualizing the results is a very
common use case for
using code interpreters.
But you can definitely do way more
advanced things with this.
So in this video, we'll use Flowwise AI,
which is a free no-code AI builder,
along with the new Claw 3.5 Sonnet model
to write and run code in an E2B sandbox.
We'll go over the basics, like setting up
E2B, writing our first code,
and eventually generating graphs by
uploading files directly to the chat.
You do not need any coding experience to
follow along with this video.
Just know that this solution allows our
AI agent to write code behind the scenes
in order to produce
outputs like charts and graphs.
If this is your first time using
Flowwise, then I highly recommend
checking up my beginner series
over here. For this video, I'll just run
Flowwise on my own machine.
Let's start by creating a new chat flow.
Let's give it a name, like data analyzer,
and let's save this. Now let's create our
agent. Let's go to add nodes.
Then under agents, let's add the tool
agent. The tool agent node
allows us to create AI chat
paths that are able to use tools, like
the E2B code interpreter tool.
Let's start by adding our
LLM. Let's go to add nodes.
Then under chat models, I'll be using the
new Claw 3.5 Sonnet model in this video,
so I'll add the chat
anthropic node to the canvas.
Under connect credentials, click on this
dropdown and click on create new.
Let's give it a name, like youtube
tutorial, and for the API key,
we need to generate a key from the
anthropic website. Go to anthropic.com,
then under this clawed menu, go to API.
And from this page,
click on start building.
You will be asked to create an account,
and anthropic should
assign some free credits to
your account. From this dashboard, click
on get API keys, then
click on create key,
give it a name, like youtube tutorial,
and select the default workspace.
Then copy your key, and add it to flow
wise. And let's click add.
And please use your own key as I will
delete this key after this recording.
Now under model name, let's
select claw 3.5 Sonnet latest.
Then let's change the temperature to a
lower value, like 0.2.
Now let's connect our chat
model to our agent, like so.
Let's also assign memory to this agent,
and memory will simply allow us to have
follow up conversations with the agent.
Let's go to add
nodes, let's go to memory,
and within memory, let's add the buffer
memory node. And then let's
connect our buffer memory node
to our tool agent. So it should look
something like this. Lastly,
let's assign a tool. Let's go
to add nodes, then under tools, let's add
the e2b code interpreter.
And let's actually connect
this to our agent as well. This code
interpreter node also requires
credentials. So click on this
drop down, click on create new, give it a
name, like e2bapi. And now
we need to create an e2bapi
key. Go to e2b.dev, then click on start
for free, then sign up for an
account, then click on keys,
click on add API key, then copy the key,
and back in flow wise,
simply paste in that key,
and click on add. Now we're nearly done
with this. Under the tool agent node,
click on additional parameters. And let's
change the system
message to something like,
use the provided code interpreter to
execute Python code written
by yourself and return the
response back to the user. Now let's save
this chat flow. And we
should now have an AI agent
that is able to write and execute code
using the code interpreter
by e2b. Let's test this out in
the chat by asking it to write very
simple Python code. For example, let's do
something like write
some simple code to print Hello World. If
we set up everything
correctly, then you should see a
response similar to this. The AI model is
simply telling us what the
response was from executing
the code. And if we look at the code
interpreter tool, we can see the code
that was generated by
our LLM, which in this case is a very
simple print statement. And the output of
that tool is the text
Hello World. And this is typically
something that you would see in the
terminal after executing
this Python code. To demonstrate this
even further, let's try a simply more
complex example, like how
many R's are in the word strawberry.
Let's run this. And our agent is saying
that there are three R's
in the word strawberry. And looking at
the code interpreter, we can see the
Python code that was
written in order to count these letters,
as well as the output from
executing this code. So let's
take this one step further. Let's see if
our assistant can generate
graphs. Let's do a simple
example like demonstrate the concept of
supply and demand using a graph. And
let's see what we got
back. We can see the graph as well as an
explanation of the economic concept of
supply and demand. We
can also see that the code interpreter
was indeed called along
with the Python code that was
generated. And we might not see anything
in the tool output. But this
artifact was indeed returned.
Now let's take this even further. We want
the ability to upload
files from our machines in
this chat window, and then ask the agent
questions and follow up questions based
on that data. So for
this tutorial, I've prepared the
following file, which you can download
from the description of
this video. And as an added bonus, you
can also download my workflow from the
description as well,
absolutely free. So if you want to show
your appreciation, then
please hit the like button
and subscribe to my channel. This file
simply contains
information about 20 companies,
like the company name, the ticker, the
stock price, the profits,
loss, etc. So back in flow-wise,
let's enable the ability to upload files
in the chat by going to
settings, configuration,
let's click on file upload, and let's
enable file uploads. Let's save this. And
now when we open the
chat, we are indeed able to select files.
So I'm going to clear the
chat, then I'm going to select
that file from my machine. And let's
start with a very simple question, like
describe the contents
of this file. And looking at the
response, we can see that the file
structure is definitely correct.
And there are some other interesting
information about the
contents as well. So this looks good.
Now let's ask our assistant to generate a
chart for us. So let's
ask it something like,
please generate a stock price versus
gross margin scatter
plot. Right, let's have a look
at the response. And look at that, we do
get our scatter plot back.
Let's try one more example,
like please also create a horizontal bar
chart that shows the
profit and loss. So I think you
can already see the value in using
something like this to create educational
agents and data analyst
agents as well. Let's see what we got
back. And this is perfect. So
if you are curious about the
type of things that you can do with e2b,
then I highly recommend
checking out the code interpreting
section in the documentation. Like if you
go to analyze data with
AI, you can see all the pre
installed libraries that you can use. So
if you are familiar with
using Python, then this list of
libraries might be important to you. If
you enjoyed this video, then
please hit the like button and
subscribe. And if you want to see more
Flow-wise related content,
then check out this video over
here. I'll see you in
the next one. Bye bye.
