now let's move on to one of the most
important features in flow wise and that
is Agent flows with agent flows we can
create multi-agent workflows this means
we can add multiple agents to the same
flow and these agents can work together
in a team or sequentially to achieve a
goal this is similar to Frameworks like
crew Ai and autogen and this is
definitely a growing area and it's
definitely a skill that you need to
learn in 2025 and this is also where
flow wise shines we can create a new
agent Flow by going to the agent flows
menu let's click on add new and under
nodes things will look a little bit
different scrolling down you now have
access to this multi-agent menu or if
you scroll further down you also have
access to this sequential agents menu
these are two very different approaches
for building multi-agent flows with
multi-agents we can use a supervisor
aent agent that will automatically
delegate the work between the different
worker agents whereas with sequential
agents we have way more control over the
flow of the logic
